{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252 {\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 British-Museum;\f1\ftech\fcharset0 Bliss-ExtraBold;\f2\ftech\fcharset0 Bliss-Regular;\f3\ftech\fcharset0 Bliss-Regular;\f4\ftech\fcharset0 Bliss-ExtraBold;\f5\ftech\fcharset0 Bliss-Italic;\f6\ftech\fcharset0 Bliss-Bold;\f7\ftech\fcharset0 Bliss-ExtraBoldItalic;\f8\ftech\fcharset0 Bliss-Medium;\f9\ftech\fcharset0 Bliss-MediumItalic;}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red35\green31\blue32;\red36\green50\blue137;\red0\green80\blue86;\red208\green207\blue230;\red0\green104\blue181;}\pard\plain\ql\f0\fs20\cf0 {\fs300\cf1 a\par }{\b\f1\fs44\cf1 Study days,Workshops and Courses\par }{\f2\fs38\cf1 September 2004 - June 2005\par }{\b\f1\fs120\cf1 Adult Learning}\par {\f3\fs16\cf2 2\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf1 Introducing the British Museum\par }{\b\f4\fs26\cf3 eyeOpener tours\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 eyeOpener tours by trained volunteers\par are an enjoyable way to get to know\par the Museum.There are ten free tours\par every day, each introducing you to a\par different area of the collection.Ask at\par the Information Desk.\par }{\b\f4\fs26\cf3 Hands On\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Handle objects in the galleries as\par diverse as ancient Greek pottery,\par medieval astrolabes and money\par from around the world. Facilitated\par by volunteers of the British Museum.\par Ask at the Information Desk.\par }{\b\f4\fs26\cf3 Gallery talks\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Free talks by curators or guest experts.\par Every day at 13.15 except Monday.\par See }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 What’s on}{\f3\fs18\cf2 .\par }{\b\f4\fs26\cf3 Reading Room\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 This historic library contains the Paul\par Hamlyn Library and COMPASS, an\par interactive multimedia database of\par the collections. It is open to Museum\par visitors from 10.00 every day.\par }{\b\f4\fs26\cf3 The British Museum\par Website\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Visit www.thebritishmuseum.ac.uk and\par find the information you need about\par the British Museum. Explore COMPASS,\par the interactive multimedia database,\par look up learning and events or find the\par education ancient civilisations\par websites.\par }{\b\f4\fs26\cf3 What’s on\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 For the complete programme of events\par at the Museum pick up }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 What’s on}{\f3\fs18\cf2 , the\par free bi-monthly leaflet or visit\par www.thebritishmuseum.ac.uk\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf1 Introducing ESOL tours at the British Museum\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Free tours for groups of students\par studying English for Speakers of Other\par Languages.A general tour of the\par Museum by specially trained guides\par includes the Enlightenment Gallery,\par Reading Room, Great Court, the\par Egyptian,Assyrian and the African\par Galleries where Entry level 1 and 2\par students can engage in language\par activities with handouts.The tour\par is designed to develop students’\par vocabulary of both historical and\par everyday words, within a welcoming\par and stimulating environment.\par Each tour lasts about 90 minutes\par and starts with an introduction in\par the Clore Education Centre.\par See diary for dates and times.\par Free, but tutors must book in\par advance through the Box Office.\par 20 places\par Welcome to the British Museum’s\par adult learning programme for 2004/05.\par The extensive and world class collections\par of the Museum are a wonderful learning\par resource for all, and we hope you will\par be able to find something to whet your\par appetite. Our offer ranges from practical\par workshops to lectures and study days,\par a number of them in partnership with\par other learning organisations.We aim\par to be a museum of the world for the\par world, and to offer opportunities for\par inspiration, discovery and an exchange\par of ideas.The Education and Information\par Department looks forward to welcoming\par you to the Museum in the year ahead,\par and we are always keen to hear about\par suggestions for future activities.\par Gareth Binns\par Keeper of Education and Information\par }{\f3\fs10\cf2 PHOTO: BENEDICT JOHNSON PHOTO: BENEDICT JOHNSON\par COVER PHOTO: BENEDICT JOHNSON}\par {\f3\fs16\cf2 3\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf1 Workshops\par }{\b\f4\fs26 Printmaking:\par engraving\par Stone carving\par Drawing in\par the Wellcome\par Trust Gallery\par Printmaking:\par drypoint and\par etching\par }{\f3\fs18\cf3 Friday 1 October\par 14.00 – 17.00\par Clore Education Centre,\par Studio\par £20, BM Friends and\par concessions £15\par 15 places\par Saturday 2 October,\par Saturday 23 April,\par Saturday 25 June\par 10.00 – 17.00\par British Museum\par Colonnade\par £30, concessions £20\par 15 places\par Friday 19 November,\par Thursday 24 February\par 10.30 – 13.30\par Clore Education Centre,\par Studio\par £15, BM Friends and\par concessions £12\par 12 places\par Friday 19 November,\par Friday 17 June\par 14.00 – 17.00\par Clore Education Centre,\par Studio\par £20, BM Friends and\par concessions £15\par 15 places\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Toni Martina, artist and tutor, demonstrates how artists like Dürer\par made prints in the different intaglio techniques of copper-plate\par engraving, drypoint and etching.This workshop concentrates on\par making an engraving and you will create your own original print.\par Materials included.\par This one day workshop is designed for beginners,but can accommodate\par more experienced carvers.You will be introduced to tools and materials\par and will work on a relief carving, taking inspiration from sculptures in\par the Museum.We will use Bath stone or similar limestone. Participants\par are encouraged to arrive with ideas and sketches of projects to\par undertake.You will be working outside and are advised to wear old\par clothes. Repeated on 23 April and 25 June.\par Develop your drawing skills through observation of the amazing\par objects in the Wellcome Trust Gallery of }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 Living and dying }{\f3\fs18\cf2 in this half\par day workshop.Artefacts range from Bolivian costumes and Mexican\par sculptures to the famous Easter Island statue Hoa Hakananai’a.\par Toni Martina, artist and tutor,demonstrates how artists like Rembrandt\par and Whistler, made their etchings.This workshop offers a rare chance\par to create your own original print using drypoint and etching.\par Cost includes all materials.\par }{\f3\fs18\cf3 Tutor:Toni Martina\par Run by Arts Express.\par Tutor:Toni Martina\par }{\b\f4\fs14\cf2 Rembrandt Van Rijn,1645}\par {\b\f4\fs26 Badge design\par Adult Learners’\par Week 2005\par Exploring Native\par American art\par }{\b\f4\cf2 Adult Learners’week\par }{\b\f4\fs26 African images,\par African objects\par }{\b\f4\cf2 Adult Learners’week\par }{\b\f4\fs26 What have\par the Arabs ever\par done for us?\par }{\b\f4\cf2 Adult Learners’week\par }{\b\f4\fs26 Maori art\par and culture:\par yesterday\par and today\par }{\b\f4\cf2 Adult Learners’week\par }{\f3\fs16\cf2 4\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 This intensive workshop starts with a look at the diverse range of\par designs and ideas in the special exhibition }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 Status symbols: identity\par and belief on modern badges}{\f3\fs18\cf2 .Then join artist Danuta Solowiej who\par will talk about her own work as sculptor, medallist and badgemaker\par as well as guide you on the creation of your own badges. Be prepared\par to donate one badge to join the wall of badges in the exhibition.\par All materials provided.\par Join in this national celebration at the British Museum.The week\par starts with free family events to celebrate Africa 2005 on Sunday\par 22 May, includes daily gallery talks and concludes with a free screening\par of an African film on Friday 27 May.We are also offering the following\par workshops on 23, 24, 26 and 27 May free of charge to groups of adult\par students on ESOL, basic skills or access courses.\par This workshop uses objects to demonstrate tribal culture, religion\par and belief. Includes time in the North American Gallery.\par Develop drawing skills and experiment with different materials and\par media through observation of the beautiful objects in the African\par Galleries. Includes object handling.\par A lively exploration, using objects and galleries of the Museum, of the\par important contribution of Arabs to western heritage and culture.\par Join us in the Pacific section of the Enlightenment Gallery which\par houses a collection of Maori treasures.Your workshop leader will use\par objects to adorn the stories and oral histories still cherished by the\par people of Polynesia today.\par }{\f3\fs18\cf3 Tutor: Danuta Solowiej\par Workshop bookings must\par be made by tutors\par through the Box Office.\par Admission free, booking\par by tutors through the\par Box Office essential\par Admission free, booking\par by tutors through the\par Box Office essential\par Admission free, booking\par by tutors through the\par Box Office essential\par Admission free, booking\par by tutors through the\par Box Office essential\par Saturday 20 November\par 10.30 – 13.30\par Clore Education Centre,\par Studio\par £15, BM Friends and\par concessions £12\par 15 places\par Sunday 22 May –\par Friday 27 May\par Monday 23 May\par 10.30 – 12.30 or\par 14.00 – 16.00\par Clore Education Centre,\par Studio\par 20 places\par Tuesday 24 May\par 10.30 – 12.30 or\par 14.00 – 16.00\par Clore Education Centre,\par Studio\par 20 places\par Thursday 26 May\par 10.30 – 12.30 or\par 14.00 – 16.00\par Clore Education Centre,\par Studio\par 20 places\par Friday 27 May\par 10.30 – 12.30 or\par 14.00 – 16.00\par Clore Education Centre,\par Claus Moser Room\par 20 places\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf1 Workshops\par }{\f3\fs10\cf2 PHOTO: BENEDICT JOHNSON}\par {\f3\fs16\cf2 5\par }{\b\f4\fs26 People of the\par Red Sea\par Sutton Hoo\par revisited\par North America’s\par native peoples\par }{\f3\fs18\cf3 Saturday 30 October\par 10.00 – 17.00\par Clore Education Centre,\par BP Lecture Theatre\par £28, BM Friends £25,\par concessions £18\par 300 places\par Saturday 27 November\par 10.30 – 16.30\par Clore Education Centre,\par BP Lecture Theatre\par £28, BM Friends £25,\par concessions £18\par 300 places\par Saturday 22 January\par 10.00 – 17.00\par Clore Education Centre,\par BP Lecture Theatre\par £28, BM Friends £25,\par concessions and members\par of Survival International,\par £18\par 300 places\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 In a series of talks by international speakers, the Red Sea study day\par will explore the people of the region. Papers will focus on Roman and\par Troglodyte interaction,Aksumite and post-Aksumite Ethiopia, Islam\par and Christianity,Crusaders in the late 12th century AD,Al-Qusayr\par and the French expedition to Egypt,magical practices, and travellers\par on the Red Sea.\par }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Organised in association with the Society for Arabian Studies\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 The Sutton Hoo ship burial in the East Anglian soil of Suffolk, has\par captured the public imagination since its excavation in 1939.\par This extraordinary burial thought to be of Redwald, King of the\par East Angles and overlord of the Anglo-Saxon kingdoms, has yielded\par spectacular treasures.The day is led by Angela Evans, Curator of the\par Sutton Hoo objects at the Brirish Museum.With other specialists\par she will present the evidence for an understanding of this famous\par find.The latest scientific scrutiny of the treasures and their materials,\par garnet, gold and glass, is discussed.The National Trust, custodians\par of the Sutton Hoo location will also contribute.\par Who are the Native North Americans of the early the 21st century?\par How do they see their present relationships with their land and\par with other Americans and Canadians? What challenges do they face\par in maintaining their rights, their language, culture and identity?\par Explore these questions with advocates on native issues and curators\par of the British Museum’s Native American displays.This day is a\par collaboration between the British Museum and Survival International.\par }{\f3\fs18\cf3 Also book online\par Also book online\par Also book online\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf1 Study days\par }{\f3\fs10\cf2 PHOTO:MILTON PADDLETY\par }{\b\f4\fs14\cf2 Helmet from the ship-burial at Sutton Hoo,Anglo-Saxon,early 7th century AD}\par {\f3\fs16\cf2 6\par }{\b\f4\fs26 The Archaeology\par of Islam\par Classics Day\par Enlightened\par architects:\par Smirke,Nash,\par Soane and their\par competitors\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Islam leaves distinctive cultural remains which can be described,\par tested and used to indicate the presence of Islam in the archaeological\par record. Speakers will consider evidence drawn from across the Islamic\par world from the 7th century AD to the present.\par }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Organised in association with the University of Manchester\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 A day of talks, discussions and gallery visits on themes related to\par Ancient Greece and Rome.Anyone with a love of the Classics or who\par wishes to broaden their knowledge is welcome to attend.\par We discuss the rapid development in the early 19th century of\par buildings for public enlightenment, showing the spirit and initiatives\par which led to the Metropolitan Improvements of 1811, with Nash’s\par Regent Street and Park, Carlton House Terrace and Buckingham\par Palace; Smirke’s rebuilding of the British Museum in the 1820s;\par Soane’s work at the Dulwich College Picture Gallery and William\par Wilkins’s creation of the National Gallery onTrafalgar Square.\par These contributions are seen in the wider European context.\par }{\f3\fs18\cf3 Also book online\par Contact:\par The City Literary Institute\par Information\par 020 743 0545\par Booking\par 020 7831 7831\par Also book online\par Saturday 26 February\par 10.00 – 17.00\par Clore Education Centre,\par BP Lecture Theatre\par £20, BM Friends £17,\par concessions £10\par 300 places\par Saturday 5 March\par 10.30 – 17.30\par Clore Education Centre,\par BP Lecture Theatre\par £29, senior citizens £18,\par those on benefit £10\par 300 places\par Saturday 7 May\par 10.00 – 16:30\par Clore Education Centre,\par BP Lecture Theatre\par £28, BM Friends £25,\par concessions £18\par 300 places\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf1 Study days\par }{\b\f4\fs14\cf2 Parthenon Sculptures,Riders in procession,Athens,Marble,5th century BC,North Frieze\par Park Crescent\par }{\f3\fs10\cf2 PHOTO: HILARY WILLIAMS}\par {\f3\fs16\cf2 7\par }{\b\f4\fs26\cf4 Destination\par Olympia\par National vision\par in Indian Cinema\par The London\par Architecture of\par John Nash\par Destination\par Bernini’s Rome\par The history\par of drawing\par techniques\par Dream makers\par of the Nile\par }{\f3\fs18\cf3 Saturday 11 September\par 10.00 – 13.30\par Clore Education Centre,\par Stevenson Lecture Theatre\par £18, BM Friends and\par concessions £15\par 30 Places\par Saturday 18 September\par 13.00 – 17.00\par Clore Education Centre,\par Stevenson Lecture Theatre\par £15, concessions £10\par 150 places\par Thursday 30 September\par 14.00 – 16.00\par Clore Education Centre,\par Claus Moser Room\par £15, concessions £12\par 20 places\par Saturday 30 October\par 10:00 – 13:30\par Clore Education Centre,\par Stevenson Lecture Theatre\par £18, BM Friends and\par concessions £15\par 30 places\par Thursday 11 November\par 14.00 – 16.00\par Clore Education Centre,\par Studio\par £15, concessions £12\par 20 places\par Saturday 15 January\par 13.00 – 17.00\par Clore Education Centre,\par Stevenson Lecture Theatre\par £15 , concessions £10\par 150 places\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 As the 2004 Olympic Games approach we look back at Ancient\par Olympia, birthplace of the Games. Here we see the remains of a\par remarkable sports complex as well as numerous temples and works\par of art belonging to the oldest and most famous sanctuary of Zeus.\par Here Pheidias created the colossal gold and ivory statue of Zeus\par which became one of the Seven Wonders of the world. Here too\par were erected hundreds of statues of celebrity athletes idolised by\par their fans.\par Showing rare archive footage, film producer and distributor Behroze\par Gandhy will introduce questions of national identity and their\par importance in the history of Indian cinema. Held jointly with Birkbeck.\par An art in focus session with Hilary Williams.We discuss the grandiose\par plans for London and urban redevelopment around 1811 with the\par Metropolitan Improvements which set the scene for the developments\par associated with the building of the National Gallery and the British\par Museum.Also considered are Buckingham Palace, Clarence House,\par Regent Street and Park, Carlton House Terrace and even a terrace in\par Great Russell Street.\par Gian Lorenzo Bernini (1598 – 1680) created much of what we now\par think of as Baroque Rome which epitomises the vigour of the Counter\par Reformation spirit.This session introduces Bernini’s brilliant early\par sculpture in the Villa Borghese, as well as later works in numerous\par churches, including Sta Maria della Vittoria and S. Francesco e Ripa.\par We see his great contribution to St Peter’s and its Piazza and how\par he combines architecture and sculpture to such dazzling effect.\par The session includes a view of sumptuous Baroque objects in the\par European Galleries.\par An art in focus session with Hilary Williams.This session looks at the\par traditional techniques in Europe from the Renaissance to the 19th\par century, including silverpoint, graphite, sanguine, stump, quills, pen\par and iron gall ink, aux troix crayons, pastels,Conte crayon and others,\par as used by Dürer,Michelangelo, Rembrandt,Watteau, Delacroix and\par many more.There is a chance to try various techniques.\par Youssef Chahine has been making films since the 1950s and is one of\par the most eminent Egyptian directors.This study session provides an\par overview of Egyptian and Arab world cinema as well as an opportunity\par to view Chahine’s work.\par }{\f3\fs18\cf3 Tutor: Judith Swaddling\par Tutor: Behroze Gandhy\par Further information and\par booking through Birkbeck:\par Telephone Carol Watts on\par 020 7631 6652 or\par ce.watts@bbk.ac.uk\par Tutor:Hilary Williams\par Tutor:Hilary Williams\par Tutor:Hilary Williams\par Tutor:Iman Hamam\par Further information and\par booking through Birkbeck:\par Telephone Carol Watts on\par 020 7631 6652 or\par ce.watts@bbk.ac.uk\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf1 Half day events}\par {\f3\fs16\cf2 8\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf1 Diary }{\f3\fs32\cf1 September 2004 - June 2005\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf5 Book through the British Museum Box Office on 020 7323 8181\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf1 September\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Saturday Half day event }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Destination Olympia }{\f3\fs18\cf2 10.00 - 13.30 £18, BMF &\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 11 }{\f3\fs18\cf2 concessions £15\par Saturday Half day event }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 National vision in Indian Cinema }{\f3\fs18\cf2 13.00 - 17.00 £15, concessions £10 }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 book through Birkbeck\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 18\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Monday Practical course }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Arabic Calligraphy: studying Kufi Scripts }{\f3\fs18\cf2 18.30 - 20.30 £162, concessions £82 24 weeks\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 20 }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 book through Birkbeck\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Monday Course }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Approaches to World Arts and Atrefacts }{\f3\fs18\cf2 18.30 - 20.30 £162, concessions £82 24 weeks\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 20 }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 book through Birkbeck\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Monday Course }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 National vision in Indian Cinema }{\f3\fs18\cf2 18.30 - 20.30 £82, concessions £43 12 weeks\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 20 }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 book through Birkbeck\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Thursday Practical course }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Chinese scroll painting }{\f3\fs18\cf2 18.30 - 20.30 £162, concessions £82 24 weeks\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 23 }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 book through Birkbeck\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Thursday Course }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Buddhist Art and Artefacts in context }{\f3\fs18\cf2 18.30 - 20.30 £162, concessions £82 24 weeks\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 23 }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 book through WEA\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Thursday Course }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Islamic Art and Architecture: }{\f3\fs18\cf2 18.30 - 20.30 £162, concessions £82 24 weeks\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 23 }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 problems and trends }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 book through Birkbeck\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Thursday Course }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 The Dance Art of India – at home abroad }{\f3\fs18\cf2 18.30 - 20.30 £82, concessions £43 12 weeks\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 23 }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 book through Birkbeck\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Thursday Half day event }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 The London Architecture of John Nash }{\f3\fs18\cf2 14.00 - 16.00 £15, concessions £12\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 30\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf1 October\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Friday Workshop }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Printmaking: engraving }{\f3\fs18\cf2 14.00 - 17.00 £20, BMF &\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 1 }{\f3\fs18\cf2 concessions £15\par Saturday Workshop }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Stone carving }{\f3\fs18\cf2 10.00 - 17.00 £30, concessions £20\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 2\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Monday Practical course }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Exploring drawing (Autumn) }{\f3\fs18\cf2 10.30 - 13.00 or £45, concessions £35 6 weeks\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 4 }{\f3\fs18\cf2 14.00 - 16.30 }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 book through WEA\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Saturday Study day }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 People of the Red Sea }{\f3\fs18\cf2 10.00 - 17.00 £28, BMF £25, }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 also book online\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 30 }{\f3\fs18\cf2 concessions £18\par Saturday Half day event }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Destination Bernini’s Rome }{\f3\fs18\cf2 10.00 - 13.30 £18, BMF &\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 30 }{\f3\fs18\cf2 concessions £15\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf1 November\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Thursday Half day event }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 The history of drawing techniques }{\f3\fs18\cf2 14.00 - 16.00 £15 , concessions £12\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 11\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Friday Workshop }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Printmaking:drypoint and etching }{\f3\fs18\cf2 14.00 - 17.00 £20, BMF &\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 19 }{\f3\fs18\cf2 concsessions £15\par Friday Workshop }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Drawing in the Wellcome Trust Gallery }{\f3\fs18\cf2 10.30 - 13.30 £15, BMF &\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 19 }{\f3\fs18\cf2 concsessions £12\par Saturday Workshop }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Badge design }{\f3\fs18\cf2 10.30 - 13.30 £15, BMF &\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 20 }{\f3\fs18\cf2 concessions £12\par Saturday Study day }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Sutton Hoo revisited }{\f3\fs18\cf2 10.30 - 16.30 £28, BMF £25, }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 also book online\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 27 }{\f3\fs18\cf2 concessions £18\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf1 December\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Thur, Fri,Sat Practical course }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Chinese calligraphy }{\f3\fs18\cf2 10.30 - 16.30 £90, BMF £80, 3 days\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 9, 10,11 }{\f3\fs18\cf2 concessions £60\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf1 January\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Monday Practical course }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Exploring drawing (Spring) }{\f3\fs18\cf2 14.00 - 16.30 £45, concessions £35 6 weeks\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 10 }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 book through WEA\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Monday Course }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 History and Archaeology in the Levant: }{\f3\fs18\cf2 18.30 - 20.30 £78, concessions £39 11 weeks\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 10 }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 excavating the Bible }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 book through Birkbeck\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Monday Course }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Nationalism and gender in Arabic Cinema }{\f3\fs18\cf2 18.30 - 20.30 £82, concessions £43 11 weeks\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 10 }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 book through Birkbeck\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Friday Practical course }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Miniature painting }{\f3\fs18\cf2 10.30 - 13.30 £162, concessions £82 20 weeks\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 14 }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 book through Birkbeck\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Saturday Half day event }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Dream makers of the Nile }{\f3\fs18\cf2 13.00 - 17.00 £15 , concessions £10 }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 book through Birkbeck\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 15\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Saturday Study day }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 North America’s native peoples }{\f3\fs18\cf2 10.00 - 17.00 £28, BMF £25, }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 also book online\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 22 }{\f3\fs18\cf2 concessions & members\par of Survival £18\par Saturday Half day event }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 First Encounters: the Mamluks }{\f3\fs18\cf2 10.00 - 13.00 £14, BMF £12, }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 also book online\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 29 }{\f3\fs18\cf2 concessions £10}\par {\f3\fs16\cf2 9\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 All events are held in the Clore Education Centre on the lower level of the Great Court\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf1 Diary }{\f3\fs32\cf1 September 2004 - June 2005\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf5 or book online where indicated at www.thebritishmuseum.ac.uk\par }{\b\f6\fs18\cf1 Thursday 21 October }{\f3\fs18\cf1 11.00 – 12.30\par }{\b\f6\fs18\cf1 Thursday 4 November }{\f3\fs18\cf1 11.00 – 12.30\par }{\b\f6\fs18\cf1 Thursday 12 November }{\f3\fs18\cf1 11.00 – 12.30\par }{\b\f6\fs18\cf1 Thursday 18 November }{\f3\fs18\cf1 14.00 – 15.30\par }{\b\f6\fs18\cf1 Friday 3 December }{\f3\fs18\cf1 11.00 – 12.30\par }{\b\f6\fs18\cf1 Thursday 20 January }{\f3\fs18\cf1 14.00 – 15.30\par }{\b\f6\fs18\cf1 Thursday 27 January }{\f3\fs18\cf1 11.00 – 12.30\par }{\b\f6\fs18\cf1 Thursday 3 February }{\f3\fs18\cf1 14.00 – 15.30\par }{\b\f6\fs18\cf1 Friday 4 February }{\f3\fs18\cf1 11.00 – 12.30\par }{\b\f6\fs18\cf1 Thursday 24 February }{\f3\fs18\cf1 11.00 – 12.30\par }{\b\f6\fs18\cf1 Friday 4 March }{\f3\fs18\cf1 11.00 – 12.30\par }{\b\f6\fs18\cf1 Thursday 5 May }{\f3\fs18\cf1 11.00 – 12.30\par }{\b\f6\fs18\cf1 Thursday 26 May }{\f3\fs18\cf1 14.00 – 15.30\par }{\b\f6\fs18\cf1 Thursday 9 June }{\f3\fs18\cf1 14.00 – 15.30\par }{\b\f6\fs18\cf1 Friday 17 June }{\f3\fs18\cf1 11.00 – 12.30\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf1 February\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Saturday Half day event }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Venice and the Grand Tour in the 18th century }{\f3\fs18\cf2 14.00 - 16.00 £15, concessions £12\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 19\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Monday Practical course }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Exploring drawing (Spring) }{\f3\fs18\cf2 14.00 - 16.30, £45, concessions £35 6 weeks\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 21 }{\f3\fs18\cf2 plus 10.30 - 13.00 }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 book through WEA\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 on 21 March\par Thursday Workshop }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Drawing in the Wellcome Trust Gallery }{\f3\fs18\cf2 10.30 - 13.30 £15, BMF &\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 24 }{\f3\fs18\cf2 concsessions £12\par Saturday Study day }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 The Archaeology of Islam }{\f3\fs18\cf2 10.00 - 17.00 £20, BMF £17, }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 also book online\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 26 }{\f3\fs18\cf2 concessions £10\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf1 March\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Saturday Study day }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Classics Day }{\f3\fs18\cf2 10.30 - 17.30 £29, senior citizens £18, }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 book through the City\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 5 }{\f3\fs18\cf2 those on benefit, £10 }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 Literacy Institute\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf1 April\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Monday Course }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Sexuality and gender in Native North }{\f3\fs18\cf2 18.30 - 20.30 £82, concessions £43 12 weeks\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 4 }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 American Culture }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 book through Birkbeck\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Saturday Half day event }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Haunted: the past in South-East Asian Cinema }{\f3\fs18\cf2 13.00 - 17.00 £15, concessions £10 }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 book through Birkbeck\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 9\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Saturday Half day event }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 David Roberts and Louis Haghe }{\f3\fs18\cf2 14.00 - 16.00 £15, concessions £10\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 9\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Thursday Practical course }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Creative writing }{\f3\fs18\cf2 11.00 - 13.00 £100, BMF £90, 10 weeks\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 14 }{\f3\fs18\cf2 concessions £60 }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 book through WEA\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Thursday Course }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 The Far East on screen }{\f3\fs18\cf2 18.30 - 20.30 £82, concessions £43 12 weeks\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 14 }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 book through Birkbeck\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Thursday Course }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 The art of Pacific performance }{\f3\fs18\cf2 18.30 - 20.30 £82, concessions £43 12 weeks\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 14 }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 book through Birkbeck\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Thursday Course }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Exotic passions: }{\f3\fs18\cf2 18.30 - 20.30 £82, concessions £43 12 weeks\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 14 }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 the meeting of Orient and Occident }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 book through Birkbeck\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Saturday Worshop }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Stone carving }{\f3\fs18\cf2 10.00 - 17.00 £30, concessions £20\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 23\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf1 May\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Satuday Study day }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Enlightened architects: }{\f3\fs18\cf2 10.00 - 16:30 £28, BMF £25, }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 also book online\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 7 }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Smirke, Nash, Soane and their competitors }{\f3\fs18\cf2 concessions £18\par Monday Practical course }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Exploring drawing }{\f3\fs18\cf2 (Summer) 14.00 - 16.30 £45, concessions £35 6 weeks\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 9 }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 book through WEA\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Saturday Half day event }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 First encounters: the Etruscans }{\f3\fs18\cf2 10.00 - 13.00 £14, BMF £12, }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 also book online\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 14 }{\f3\fs18\cf2 concessions £10\par Saturday Half day event }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Linnaus, Banks and Mrs Delany }{\f3\fs18\cf2 14.00 - 16.00 £15, concessions £12\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 21\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Monday Adult Learners’ }{\b\f6\fs18\cf1 Exploring Native American art }{\f3\fs18\cf2 10.30 - 12.30 or }{\f3\fs18\cf1 Free }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 booking by tutors\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 23 }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Week 14.00 - 16.00 }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 through the Box Office\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Tuesday Adult Learners’ }{\b\f6\fs18\cf1 African images:African objects }{\f3\fs18\cf2 10.30 - 12.30 or }{\f3\fs18\cf1 Free }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 booking by tutors\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 24 }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Week 14.00 - 16.00 }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 through the Box Office\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Thursday Adult Learners’ }{\b\f6\fs18\cf1 What have the Arabs ever done for us? }{\f3\fs18\cf2 10.30 - 12.30 or }{\f3\fs18\cf1 Free }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 booking by tutors\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 26 }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Week 14.00 - 16.00 }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 through the Box Office\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Friday Adult Learners’ }{\b\f6\fs18\cf1 Maori art and culture: yesterday and today }{\f3\fs18\cf2 10.30 - 12.30 or }{\f3\fs18\cf1 Free }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 booking by tutors\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 27 }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Week 14.00 - 16.00 }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 through the Box Office\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf1 June\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Friday Workshop }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Printmaking:drypoint and etching }{\f3\fs18\cf2 14.00 - 17.00 £20, BMF &\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 17 }{\f3\fs18\cf2 concessions £15\par Saturday Workshop }{\b\f6\fs18\cf2 Stone carving }{\f3\fs18\cf2 10.00 - 17.00 £30, concessions £20\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf2 25\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf1 Free ESOL tours - }{\f3\fs18\cf1 Tutors must book in advance through the Box Office}\par {\f3\fs16\cf2 10\par }{\b\f4\fs26\cf4 First Encounters:\par the Mamluks\par Venice and the\par Grand Tour in\par the 18th century\par Haunted:\par the past in\par South-East\par Asian Cinema\par David Roberts\par and Louis Haghe\par First Encounters:\par the Etruscans\par Linnaus,Banks\par and Mrs Delany\par }{\f3\fs18\cf3 Saturday 29 January\par 10.00 – 13.00\par Clore Education Centre,\par Stevenson Lecture Theatre\par £14, BM Friends £12,\par concessions £10\par 50 places\par Saturday 19 February\par 14.00 – 16.00\par Clore Education Centre,\par Sackler Room\par £15, concessions £12\par 25 places\par Saturday 9 April\par 13.00 – 17.00\par Clore Education Centre,\par Stevenson Lecture Theatre\par £15, concessions £10\par 150 places\par Saturday 9 April\par 14.00 – 16.00\par Clore Education Centre,\par Sackler Room\par £15, concessions £10\par 25 places\par Saturday 14 May\par 10.00 – 13.00\par Clore Education Centre,\par Stevenson Lecture Theatre\par £14, BM Friends £12,\par concessions £10\par 50 places\par Saturday 21 May\par 14.00 – 16.00\par Clore Education Centre,\par Sackler Room\par £15, concessions £12\par 25 places\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 The Mamluks defeated the Mongols and pushed out the last of the\par Crusaders to establish a hold on Egypt and Syria that was to continue\par until 1517 and the rise of the Ottomans. Discover the history of\par these ‘slave soldiers’, their fascinating hierarchical social system, and\par their impressive artistic legacy,which includes sculptural architecture,\par enamelled glass and inlaid metalwork. For beginners to the subject.\par Includes time in the gallery.\par An art in focus session with Hilary Williams. Paintings, prints and\par drawings relating to art works produced for the Grand Tourists\par passing through Venice in the 18th century.Discussion also concerns\par the role of Consul Smith, his interaction with Canaletto and the\par progress of his collection into that of King George III.\par An opportunity to see the Thai ghost film }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 Nang Nak }{\f3\fs18\cf2 (directed by\par Nonzee Nimibutr, 1999) which was a domestic blockbuster hit that\par also received international attention.A lecture and discussion follows\par the screening.\par An art in focus session with Hilary Williams.David Roberts, famous\par for his views of the Middle East,was supported by Louis Haghe, the\par lithographer, in creating his successful series of views which have\par become so familiar.We look at the method of production and the\par amazing endeavours which grew out of their travels.\par We now know a vast amount about this fascinating and influential\par civilisation. In ancient times the Etruscans were famous for their\par love of music, religious devotion and precious metalwork.They also\par had a great love of feasting, dance and sport which feature on\par their exuberant tomb paintings, a highlight of any visit to Tuscany.\par For beginners to the subject, this is a repeat of the successful session\par held in April 2004.\par An art in focus session with Hilary Williams.We discuss the extraordinary\par development of an interest in botany from the circle of John Ray,\par Carl Linnaeus and Mary Delany, and how this relates to new\par discoveries by Sir Joseph Banks and Dr Solander on Cook’s voyage\par of HMB Endeavour, 1768 – 71.This session looks at the curious\par connections between Banks, Solander, the Duchess of Portland and\par Mary Delany and the beautiful art works which these spawned.\par }{\f3\fs18\cf3 Tutor: Rachel Ward\par Also book online\par Tutor:Hilary Williams\par Tutor:May Adadol\par Ingawanij\par Further information and\par booking through Birkbeck:\par Telephone Carol Watts on\par 020 7631 6652 or\par ce.watts@bbk.ac.uk\par Tutor:Hilary Williams\par Tutor: Judith Swaddling\par Also book online\par Tutor:Hilary Williams\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf1 Half day events\par }{\b\f4\fs14\cf2 Mosque lamp,Mamluk dynasty,about AD 1350-55,from Cairo,Egypt\par Mary Delany,1700-88,}{\b\i\f7\fs14\cf2 Sea Daffodil}\par {\f3\fs16\cf2 11\par }{\b\f4\fs26 Arabic\par Calligraphy:\par studying\par Kufi Scripts\par Chinese scroll\par painting\par Exploring\par drawing\par (Autumn)\par }{\f3\fs18\cf3 24 Monday evenings\par from Monday 20\par September\par 18.30 – 20.30\par Clore Education Centre,\par Studio\par £162, concessions £82\par 24 Thursday evenings\par from Thursday 23\par September\par 18.30 – 20.30\par Clore Education Centre,\par Studio\par £162, concessions £82\par 6 Monday mornings or\par 6 Monday afternoons\par from Monday 4 October\par 10.30 – 13.00 or\par 14.00 – 16.30\par Clore Education Centre,\par Studio\par £45, concessions £35\par 15 places\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 The distinctive forms of early Kufi and Fatmid Kufi scripts have been\par used throughout the Islamic world and have been highly influential\par within Arabic calligraphy. In this practical course students will learn\par how to write and colour Kufi script.This course is suitable for\par students of all levels and abilities.\par An introduction to the theory, methods and techniques of flower,\par bird and landscape painting. Demonstrations and practical work will\par be framed within the study of great Chinese scroll paintings as well\par as their social and cultural contexts.The course will enable students\par to develop essential techniques of Chinese scroll painting.\par See the British Museum through an artist’s eyes! Drawing from the\par sculpture and objects on display, with guidance on technique, media\par and style, you will gain an insight into our cultural heritage as well as\par enhancing your drawing skill. Held jointly with the Workers Education\par Association.\par }{\f3\fs18\cf3 Tutor: Mustafa Ja’far\par Further information and\par booking through Birkbeck:\par Telephone Carol Watts on\par 020 7631 6652 or\par ce.watts@bbk.ac.uk\par Tutor: Le Guo\par Further information and\par booking through Birkbeck:\par Telephone Carol Watts on\par 020 7631 6652 or\par ce.watts@bbk.ac.uk\par Tutor: Jane Hawkin\par Further information and\par booking through the WEA:\par telephone Esther Morris\par on 020 7613 7550\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf1 Practical courses\par }{\f3\fs10\cf2 PHOTO: PHIL SAYER\par }{\b\i\f7\fs14\cf2 Xie Chufang,}{\b\f4\fs14\cf2 Fascination of Nature,China AD1321}\par {\f3\fs16\cf2 12\par }{\b\f4\fs26 Chinese\par calligraphy\par Exploring\par drawing\par (Spring)\par Miniature\par painting\par Creative writing\par Exploring\par drawing\par (Summer)\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 This practical three day course will explore the historic origins and\par evolution of this ancient art form.The course will include lectures\par and gallery talks as well as practical sessions.All levels welcome\par including beginners.\par See the British Museum through an artist’s eyes! Drawing from the\par sculpture and objects on display, with guidance on technique, media\par and style, you will gain an insight into our cultural heritage as well as\par enhancing your drawing skill. Held jointly with the Workers Education\par Association.\par This practical course covers the techniques of Indian, Mughal and\par Persian miniature artists; the use of traditional brushes, paper and\par colour pigments. Students will also be introduced to the context in\par which miniature paintings were made as well as the origins and\par development of this highly designed and expressive form.\par This course, in collaboration with the Workers Education Association,\par will use the Museum’s collections as inspiration for new writing.\par We will do exercises each week in class to generate new writing\par and course members will share their writing with each other and\par the tutor.We will also look at examples of published contemporary\par writing and discuss key techniques in the writing of poetry and\par short stories. Suitable for beginners.\par See the British Museum through an artist’s eyes! Drawing from the\par sculpture and objects on display, with guidance on technique, media\par and style, you will gain an insight into our cultural heritage as well\par as enhancing your drawing skill. Held jointly with the Workers\par Education Association.\par }{\f3\fs18\cf3 Tutor: Qu lei Lei\par Tutor:Trevor Wood\par Further information and\par booking through the WEA:\par telephone Esther Morris\par on 020 7613 7550\par Tutor: Fatima Zahra\par Hassan\par Further information and\par booking through Birkbeck:\par Telephone Carol Watts on\par 020 7631 6652 or\par ce.watts@bbk.ac.uk\par Tutor:Karen Kuehne\par Further information and\par booking through the WEA:\par telephone Esther Morris\par on 020 7613 7550\par Thursday 9, Friday\par 10 December and\par Saturday 11 December\par 10.30 – 16.30\par Clore Education Centre,\par Sackler Room\par £90, BM Friends £80,\par concessions £60\par 15 places\par 6 Monday afternoons\par from Monday 10 January\par 14.00 – 16.30 or\par 5 Monday afternoons\par and one morning from\par Monday 21 February\par 14.00 – 16.30\par (plus 10.30 – 13.00\par on 21 March)\par Clore Education Centre,\par Studio\par £45, concessions £35\par 15 places\par 20 Friday mornings\par from Friday 14 January\par 10.30 – 13.30\par Clore Education Centre,\par Studio\par £162, concessions £82\par 20 places\par 10 Thursday mornings\par from Thursday 14 April\par 11.00 – 13.00\par Clore Education Centre,\par Claus Moser Room\par £100, BM Friends £90,\par concessions £60\par 15 places\par 6 Monday afternoons\par from Monday 9 May\par (until 20 June,\par excluding bank holiday)\par 14.00 – 16.30\par Clore Education Centre,\par Studio\par £45, concessions £35\par 15 places\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf1 Practical courses\par }{\f3\fs10\cf2 © OBSERVER MAGAZINE}\par {\f3\fs16\cf2 13\par }{\b\f4\fs26\cf6 Approaches to\par World Arts and\par Artefacts\par National vision\par in Indian cinema\par Buddhist Art\par and Artefacts\par in context\par Islamic Art\par and Architecture:\par problems and\par trends\par The Dance Art\par of India –\par at home abroad\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 How do we look at and understand artwork from different parts\par of the world? Are Western approaches useful for appreciating other\par cultural traditions? Using case studies we consider how questions of\par collecting, display, colonialism, tourism, national identity and gender\par affect the way we study, value, exhibit and sell art objects.\par Indian struggle for independence coincided with the invention of\par cinema.This course examines early twentieth century Indian cinema,\par Bollywood movies, nationalist Bengal School film and the history of\par Indian art to explore the diverse constructions of national identity in\par Indian cinema.\par An exploration of key forms of Buddhist art and artefacts in their\par religious contexts and throughout their cultural and geographical\par diversity. Using the collections of the British Museum and other\par museums we will explore the development of the image of the\par Buddha and discuss Buddhist ritual arts and more in their historical\par and contemporary settings.\par This course covers both a general introduction to the major artefacts\par and monuments of the Islamic world from AD 600, and a specific\par study of themes and issues that historically contextualise this\par material. Simultaneously it considers the numerous cross-cultural\par influences and artistic exchanges to understand the eclecticism and\par regional diversity present in the art of the Islamic lands.\par Dance has a long, complex and living history in India – folk and\par festival dance, classical and theatre dance ritual and temple dance\par and ‘filmi’ or Bollywood dance. Importantly, it also embodies a\par critical negotiation by the worldwide Indian/subcontinental diaspora.\par Using visual materials and performance, this survey course will be an\par introduction to its artistic and formal elements as well as its historical,\par philosophical and socio-cultural contexts, past and present.\par }{\f3\fs18\cf3 Tutor: Ben Burt\par Further information and\par booking through Birkbeck:\par Telephone Carol Watts on\par 020 7631 6652 or\par ce.watts@bbk.ac.uk\par Tutor: Behroze Gandhy\par Further information and\par booking through Birkbeck:\par Telephone Carol Watts on\par 020 7631 6652 or\par ce.watts@bbk.ac.uk\par Tutors: Ronit Yoeli-Tlamin\par and Ken Teague\par Further information and\par booking through Birkbeck:\par Telephone Carol Watts on\par 020 7631 6652 or\par ce.watts@bbk.ac.uk\par Tutor:Tehnyat Majeed\par Further information and\par booking through Birkbeck:\par Telephone Carol Watts on\par 020 7631 6652 or\par ce.watts@bbk.ac.uk\par Tutor: Chitra Sundaram,\par Further information and\par booking through Birkbeck:\par Telephone Carol Watts on\par 020 7631 6652 or\par ce.watts@bbk.ac.uk\par 24 Monday evenings\par from Monday 20\par September\par 18.30 – 20.30\par Clore Education Centre,\par Sackler Room\par £162, concessions £82\par 30 places\par 12 Monday evenings\par from Monday 20\par September\par 18.30 – 20.30\par Clore Education Centre,\par Claus Moser Room\par £82, concessions £43\par 20 places\par 24 Thursday evenings\par from Thursday 23\par September\par 18.30 – 20.30\par Clore Education Centre,\par Sackler Room\par £162, concessions £82\par 25 places\par 24 Thursday evenings\par from Thursday 23\par September\par 18.30 – 20.30\par Clore Education Centre,\par Sackler Room\par £162, concessions £82\par 25 places\par 12 Thursday evenings\par from Thursday 23\par September\par 18.30 – 20.30\par Clore Education Centre,\par Claus Moser Room\par £82, concessions £43\par 20 places\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf1 Courses\par }{\b\i\f7\fs14\cf2 Pather Panchali,}{\b\f4\fs14\cf2 Source British Film Institute\par Dancing Shiva in a ring of fire,Tamil Nadu,around AD 1100}\par {\f3\fs16\cf2 14\par }{\b\f4\fs26\cf6 History and\par Archaeology\par in the Levant:\par excavating\par the Bible\par Nationalism\par and gender in\par Arabic Cinema\par Sexuality and\par gender in Native\par North American\par Culture\par The Far East\par on screen\par The art of Pacific\par performance\par Exotic passions:\par the meeting of\par Orient and\par Occident\par }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Using the collections of the British Museum we will explore the\par civilisations of Ancinet Palestine from the Neolithic period to the\par end of the Iron Age.With archaeology as our starting point,we will\par interrogate the biblical texts as sources for ancient history.A 12th\par session will be organised in negotiation with the students.\par Through an examination of cinema from the Arab world, including\par Egypt,Tunisia, Lebanon and Palestine, students will develop a\par knowledge and understanding of the various critical approaches and\par genres.We will discuss issues relating to gender, the body and\par performance, and study the relationship between the national and\par global in terms of politics and identity.This course includes Saturday\par half day, }{\i\f5\fs18\cf2 Dream Makers of the Nile }{\f3\fs18\cf2 on 15 January.\par How have sex and gender differences been implicated in broader\par economic, political and social processes throughout American\par Indian history? Using art objects, archaeological, historical and\par anthropological data, this course examines the sexual division of\par labour, indigenous and post-colonial gender roles, ideologies, ritual,\par and the existence of third genders.\par Indonesia, Malaysia,Thailand,Vietnam, the Philippines and Cambodia\par all have a long but little known history of filmmaking. Here we\par examine South East Asian cinema in relation to nationhood and\par modernity, the Chinese diaspora, colonisation and folk entertainment.\par We will also consider how genres such as ghost and melodrama\par acquire indigenous emphasis.\par The vibrant history of dance and ritual performance in the Pacific is\par reflected in the artefacts and visual records held in institutions like\par the British Museum.We will draw on these collections, video footage\par and meetings with Pacific performers in London to explore the art\par and meanings of performance.With a focus on Polynesia we will be\par covering issues of power, relationships with spirits, gender, identity\par and cultural change.\par This course will trace the mutual fascination of Orient and Occident\par evidenced in their material exchanges.The discussion will cover\par instances of artistic and cultural interactions between Asia and\par Europe from the medieval to the contemporary period, exploring\par how the appeal of the exotic has shaped their material cultures.\par }{\f3\fs18\cf3 Tutors: Jonathan Tubb &\par Rupert Chapman\par Further information and\par booking through Birkbeck:\par Telephone Vicky\par Mohammed on\par 020 7631 6604 or\par v.mohammed@bbk.ac.uk\par Tutor:Iman Hamam\par Further information and\par booking through Birkbeck:\par Telephone Carol Watts on\par 020 7631 6652 or\par ce.watts@bbk.ac.uk\par Tutor: Massimiliano\par Carocci\par Further information and\par booking through Birkbeck:\par Telephone Carol Watts on\par 020 7631 6652 or\par ce.watts@bbk.ac.uk\par Tutor:May Adadol\par Ingawanij\par Further information and\par booking through Birkbeck:\par Telephone Carol Watts on\par 020 7631 6652 or\par ce.watts@bbk.ac.uk\par Tutor: Jennifer E Newell\par Further information and\par booking through Birkbeck:\par Telephone Carol Watts on\par 020 7631 6652 or\par ce.watts@bbk.ac.uk\par Tutor: Renate Dohmen\par Further information and\par booking through Birkbeck:\par Telephone Carol Watts on\par 020 7631 6652 or\par ce.watts@bbk.ac.uk\par 11 Monday evenings\par from Monday 10 January\par 18.30 – 20.30\par Clore Education Centre,\par Stevenson Lecture Theatre\par £78, concessions £39\par 30 places\par 11 Monday evenings\par from Monday 10 January\par 18.30 – 20.30\par Clore Education Centre,\par Claus Moser Room\par £82, concessions £43\par 12 Monday evenings\par from Monday 4 April\par 18.30 – 20.30\par Clore Education Centre,\par Sackler Room\par £82, concessions £43\par 12 Thursday evenings\par from Thursday 14 April\par 18.30 – 20.30\par Clore Education Centre,\par Claus Moser Room\par £82, concessions £43\par 12 Thursday evenings\par from Thursday 14 April\par 18.30 – 20.30\par Clore Education Centre,\par Sackler Room\par £82, concessions £43\par 12 Thursday evenings\par from Thursday 14 April\par 18.30 – 20.30\par Clore Education Centre,\par Studio\par £82, concessions £43\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf1 Courses\par }{\f3\fs10\cf2 PHOTO: BENEDICT JOHNSON}\par {\f3\fs16\cf2 15\par }{\b\f4\fs26\cf1 How to book\par }{\f3\cf3 • }{\f3\cf2 Ask at the Information desk for magnifying glasses,wheelchairs, large print version\par of }{\i\f5\cf2 What’s on }{\f3\cf2 and a plan of the Museum.\par }{\f3\cf3 • }{\f3\cf2 Events, galleries and libraries in the Museum are wheelchair accessible unless\par otherwise stated.\par }{\f3\cf3 • }{\f3\cf2 A free place can be usually be offered to a disabled person’s helper.\par }{\f3\cf3 • }{\f3\cf2 Education spaces in the Clore Education Centre have induction loops.There is a\par portable induction loop and sound enhancement system for other parts of the\par Museum. Please let the Department of Education and Information know in advance.\par }{\f3\cf3 • }{\f3\cf2 BSL interpretation and note taking can be arranged if you let us know 4 weeks in\par advance.\par }{\f3\cf3 • }{\f3\cf2 BSL interpreted gallery talks (45 minutes) are on regular basis. See }{\i\f5\cf2 What’s on}{\f3\cf2 .\par }{\f3\cf3 • }{\f3\cf2 Handling sessions and Museum tours for groups of people who are visually impaired\par or a volunteer to accompany visually impaired individuals can be arranged. Please\par contact the Department of Education and Information in advance.\par }{\f3\cf3 • }{\f3\cf2 Written material can be made available in alternative formats if you let us know\par 4 weeks in advance.\par }{\f3\cf3 • }{\f3\cf2 The Parthenon Introductory Gallery has braille labels and plaster cast reliefs for\par touching.\par }{\f3\cf3 • }{\f3\cf2 Guide and companion dogs are welcome.\par }{\f3\cf3 • }{\f3\cf2 The Reading Room offers a range of facilities for visually impaired visitors.\par Telephone 020 7323 8838 for more information.\par }{\f3\cf3 • }{\f3\cf2 For tours for groups of adult learners following courses in English for Speakers\par of Other Languages (ESOL) see diary page.\par }{\f3\cf3 • }{\f3\cf2 Many events can be adapted for people with learning difficulties.\par }{\b\f4\fs32\cf1 General information\par }{\b\f4\fs26\cf1 Access\par Large print\par }{\f3\fs24\cf3 • }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Booking for all events opens 16 August 2004.\par }{\f3\fs24\cf3 • }{\f3\fs18\cf2 All bookings, unless otherwise stated, can be made by calling the British Museum Box Office\par on 020 7323 8181 daily 10.00 – 16.45\par }{\f3\fs24\cf3 • }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Some events are indicated as ‘also book online’ at www.thebritishmuseum.ac.uk\par }{\f3\fs24\cf3 • }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Alternatively send a cheque payable to the ‘British Museum Great Court Ltd’ with the name\par of the event clearly indicated to:\par Box Office, British Museum, Great Russell Street, London WC1B 3DG\par }{\f3\fs24\cf3 • }{\f3\fs18\cf2 We cannot offer refunds unless in exceptional circumstances.We reserve the right to cancel\par a course or event, with refund of ticket price, if it does not reach minimum numbers.\par }{\f3\fs24\cf3 • }{\f3\fs18\cf2 Concessionary rates apply to senior citizens, students on state funded courses, registered\par unemployed and people with disabilities. Proof of status may be required on the day of the\par event. If booking by post, a photocopy showing current status should be enclosed.\par }{\f3\fs24\cf3 • }{\f3\fs18\cf2 If you have special access requirements please inform the Box Office or the Department of\par Education and Information in advance.\par }{\f3\fs24\cf2 A large print version of this booklet is available from the Information\par Desk.Telephone 020 7323 8000 or the Department of Education and\par Information on 020 7323 8511/8854\par }{\f3\fs10\cf2 PHOTO: BENEDICT JOHNSON}\par {\f8\fs18\cf1 For information on education programmes and resources including the schools brochure contact\par the Education and Information Department.Telephone 020 7323 8511/8854, facsimile\par 020 7323 8855 or email education@thebritishmuseum.ac.uk\par 10.00 – 17.30 Saturday to Wednesday, 10.00 – 20.30 Thursday and Friday (selected galleries).\par 9.00 – 18.00 Sunday to Wednesday, 9.00 – 23.00 Thursday to Saturday.\par The superbly equipped Clore Education Centre has enabled the Education and Information\par Department to expand its lifelong learning programme.Two large auditoria offer a programme of\par lectures, films and videos as well as providing a venue for academic conferences, study days and\par cultural performances. Seminar rooms provide for object handling, courses and workshops and a\par specially equipped Information Technology room.\par The Reading Room in the Great Court is open from 10.00 every day.You can consult books\par based on the collections in the Paul Hamlyn Library or use COMPASS, the new multimedia access\par system to the Museum’s collections.\par Free eyeOpener gallery tours are available every day. Specially trained volunteer guides introduce\par major areas of the collections. Each tour lasts approximately 50 minutes.\par 90 minute Highlights tours, £8 or £5 concessions are also provided. Also Audio tours, £3.50.\par There is a full programme of gallery talks, lectures and films, as well as other events.\par Further details in }{\i\f9\fs18\cf1 What’s on}{\f8\fs18\cf1 , the Museum’s bi-monthly events leaflet free of charge from the\par Information Desk.\par The British Museum has an exciting programme of special changing exhibitions.\par See }{\i\f9\fs18\cf1 What’s on }{\f8\fs18\cf1 for further details.\par Membership costs £50 a year (direct debit) £55 (other payment methods). For details\par of how to join telephone 020 7323 8605 or visit www.thebritishmuseum.ac.uk/friends\par }{\f2\fs18\cf1 Great Russell Street, London WC1B 3DG\par www.thebritishmuseum.ac.uk\par }{\b\f1\fs18\cf1 Education\par Museum opening hours\par Great Court\par opening hours\par Study facilities\par Tours\par What’s On\par British Museum Friends\par }{\fs150\cf1 a\par}\par } 